[FLINK-24370] Addition of blog post describing features and usage of the Async Sink… (#517)
apache/flink-web: _posts/2022-03-16-async-sink-base.md

> ---

Reviewer: General comment, there is some good overview text in the FLIP that you could reuse to give context here

layout: post

> title: "Asynchronous Base Sink"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "The Generic Asynchronous Base Sink"
```

> date: 2022-03-17 16:00:00

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2022-04-04 16:00:00
```

authors:
- CrynetLogistics:
  name: "Zichen Liu"
  twitter: "CrynetLogistics"

> excerpt: An overview of the new features of the new Async Base Sink and pointers for building your own concrete sink atop

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
excerpt: An overview of the new AsyncBaseSink and how to use it for building your own concrete sink
```

---

> The basic functionalities of sinks in general are quite similar. They batch records according to user defined buffering hints, sign requests, write them to the destination, retry unsuccessful or throttled requests, and participate in checkpointing.

Reviewer: > They batch records according to user defined buffering hints

I would say this is not a "basic functionalities" of sink, this is a more advanced feature. A basic sink would just send records one by one

> New for [Flink 1.15](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-171%3A+Async+Sink) is the Async Base Sink - an abstract sink with a number of common functionalities extracted. Adding support for a new destination now only requires a lightweight shim that implements the specific interfaces of the destination using a client that supports async requests. 

Reviewer: > is the Async Base Sink - an ab

nit: 

> is the Async Base Sink; an ab

> New for [Flink 1.15](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-171%3A+Async+Sink) is the Async Base Sink - an abstract sink with a number of common functionalities extracted. Adding support for a new destination now only requires a lightweight shim that implements the specific interfaces of the destination using a client that supports async requests. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New in [Flink 1.15](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-171%3A+Async+Sink) is the AsyncBaseSink, an abstract sink with a number of common functionalities extracted. Adding support for a new destination now only requires a lightweight shim that implements the specific interfaces of the destination using a client that supports async requests. 
```

> This common abstraction will reduce the effort required to maintain all these individual sinks, with bugfixes and improvements to the sink core benefiting all implementations that extend it.

Reviewer: > maintain all these individual sinks

Which individual sinks?

> **Attention** The sink is designed to participate in checkpointing to provide at-least once semantics, but it is limited to destinations that provide a client that supports async requests.

Reviewer: > but it is limited to destinations that provide a client that supports async requests.

nit: Technically it is not, you could manage a thread pool in the concrete implementation and use a sync client

> The design of the sink focuses on extensibility and a broad support of destinations. The core of the sink is kept generic and free of any connector specific dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The design of the sink focuses on extensibility and a broad support of destinations. The core of the sink is kept generic and free of any connector-specific dependencies.
```

{% toc %}

> # Dependency
> To use this base sink, add the following dependency to your project:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Adding the base sink as a dependency

In order to this base sink, you will need to add the following dependency to your project. The example below follows the Maven syntax:

```

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
  <artifactId>flink-connector-base</artifactId>
  <version>${flink.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

> 
> 
> 
> # Public Interfaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

# The public interfaces of AsyncSinkBase
```

## Generic Types

`<InputT>` – type of elements in a DataStream that should be passed to the sink

`<RequestEntryT>` – type of a payload containing the element and additional metadata that is required to submit a single element to the destination

> ## Element Converter Interface
> ```java
> public interface ElementConverter<InputT, RequestEntryT> extends Serializable {
>     RequestEntryT apply(InputT element, SinkWriter.Context context);
> }
> ```
> Concrete sink implementers should provide a way to convert from an element in the DataStream to the payload type that contains all the additional metadata required to submit that element to the destination by the sink.
> Ideally this would be hidden from the end user as it allows concrete sink implementers to adapt to changes in the destination api without breaking end user code. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## ElementConverter Interface

```java
public interface ElementConverter<InputT, RequestEntryT> extends Serializable {
    RequestEntryT apply(InputT element, SinkWriter.Context context);
}
```

Classes that implement the concrete sink should provide a way to convert from an element in the DataStream to the payload type that contains all the additional metadata required to submit that element to the destination by the sink. Ideally, this would be hidden from the end user since it allows concrete sink implementers to adapt to changes in the destination API without breaking end user code. 
```

> ## Sink Writer Interface

Reviewer: You did not cover how to snapshot state and handle errors

```java
public abstract class AsyncSinkWriter<InputT, RequestEntryT extends Serializable>

>         implements SinkWriter<InputT, Void, Collection<RequestEntryT>> {

Reviewer: This is out of date:

https://github.com/apache/flink/blob/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-base/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/connector/base/sink/writer/AsyncSinkWriter.java#L54

    // ...
    protected abstract void submitRequestEntries
            (List<RequestEntryT> requestEntries, Consumer<List<RequestEntryT>> requestResult);
    // ...
}
```

> This method should specify how a list of elements from the datastream may be persisted into the destination. Sink implementers of various datastore and data processing vendors may use their own clients in connecting to and persisting the requestEntries received by this method.

Reviewer: > This method should specify how a list of elements from the datastream may be persisted into the destination

I thought this method writes elements to the destination? This is worded in a confusing way, sounds like it should return an Object to tell something else how to write.

Should any elements fail to be persisted, they should be requeued back in the buffer for retry using `requestResult.accept(...list of failed entries...)`. However, retrying any element that is known to be faulty and consistently failing, will result in that element being requeued forever, therefore a sensible strategy for determining what should be retried is highly recommended.

```java
public abstract class AsyncSinkWriter<InputT, RequestEntryT extends Serializable>
        implements SinkWriter<InputT, Void, Collection<RequestEntryT>> {
    // ...
    protected abstract long getSizeInBytes(RequestEntryT requestEntry);
    // ...
}
```

> The generic sink has a concept of size of elements in the buffer. This allows users to specify a byte size threshold beyond which elements will be flushed. However the sink implementer is best positioned to determine what is most sensible measure of size for each `RequestEntryT` is.

Author: Instead of "The generic sink", put "The async sink"

```java
public abstract class AsyncSinkWriter<InputT, RequestEntryT extends Serializable>
        implements SinkWriter<InputT, Void, Collection<RequestEntryT>> {
    // ...
    public AsyncSinkWriter(
            ElementConverter<InputT, RequestEntryT> elementConverter,
            Sink.InitContext context,
            int maxBatchSize,
            int maxInFlightRequests,
            int maxBufferedRequests,
            long flushOnBufferSizeInBytes,
            long maxTimeInBufferMS,
            long maxRecordSizeInBytes) { /* ... */ }
    // ...
}
```

## Sink Interface

```java
public class MySink<InputT> extends AsyncSinkBase<InputT, RequestEntryT> {
    // ...
    @Override
    public SinkWriter<InputT, Void, Collection<PutRecordsRequestEntry>> createWriter
            (InitContext context, List<Collection<PutRecordsRequestEntry>> states) {
        return new MySinkWriter(context);
    }
    // ...
}
```
Sink implementers extending this will need to return their own extension of the `AsyncSinkWriter` from `createWriter()` inside their own implementation of `AsyncSinkBase`.

> Currently the [Kinesis Data Streams sink](https://github.com/apache/flink/tree/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-aws-kinesis-streams) and [Kinesis Data Firehose sink](https://github.com/apache/flink/tree/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-aws-kinesis-firehose) are using this base sink. 

Author: Use "At the time of writing..." instead of "Currently..."

# Metrics

> There are 3 metrics that implementing sinks will automatically benefit from and therefore shouldn't implement themselves.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three metrics that automatically exist when you implement sinks (and, thus, should not be implemented by yourself).
```

* CurrentSendTime Gauge - returns the amount of time in milliseconds it took for the most recent request to write records to return, whether successful or not.  
* NumBytesOut Counter - counts the total number of bytes the sink has tried to write to the destination, using the method `getSizeInBytes` to determine the size of each record. This will double count failures that may need to be retried. 
* NumRecordsOut Counter - similar to above, this counts the total number of records the sink has tried to write to the destination. This will double count failures that may need to be retried.

> # Sink Behaviour
> 
> 
> There are 6 sink configuration settings that control the buffering, flushing and retry behaviour of the sink.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Sink Behavior

There are six sink configuration settings that control the buffering, flushing, and retry behavior of the sink.
```

---
layout: post
title: "The Generic Asynchronous Base Sink"

> date: 2022-04-05 16:00:00

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2022-04-30 16:00:00
```

authors:
- CrynetLogistics:
  name: "Zichen Liu"
excerpt: An overview of the new AsyncBaseSink and how to use it for building your own concrete sink
---

> Flink sinks in general are quite similar. They batch records according to user defined buffering hints, sign requests, write them to the destination, retry unsuccessful or throttled requests, and participate in checkpointing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flink sinks share a lot of similar behavior. All sinks batch records according to user-defined buffering hints, sign requests, write them to the destination, retry unsuccessful or throttled requests, and participate in checkpointing.
```

> Flink sinks share a lot of similar behavior. All sinks batch records according to user defined buffering hints, sign requests, write them to the destination, retry unsuccessful or throttled requests, and participate in checkpointing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flink sinks share a lot of similar behavior. All sinks batch records according to user-defined buffering hints, sign requests, write them to the destination, retry unsuccessful or throttled requests, and participate in checkpointing.
```

> New in [Flink 1.15](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-171%3A+Async+Sink) is the `AsyncSinkBase`, an abstract sink with a number of common functionalities extracted. Adding support for a new destination now only requires a lightweight shim that implements the specific interfaces of the destination using a client that supports async requests. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is why for [Flink 1.15](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-171%3A+Async+Sink) we have decided to create the `AsyncSinkBase`, an abstract sink with a number of common functionalities extracted. Adding support for a new destination now only requires a lightweight shim that implements the specific interfaces of the destination using a client that supports async requests. 
```

> This is why for [Flink 1.15](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-171%3A+Async+Sink) we have decided to create the `AsyncSinkBase`, an abstract sink with a number of common functionalities extracted. Adding support for a new destination now only requires a lightweight shim that implements the specific interfaces of the destination using a client that supports async requests. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is why for [Flink 1.15](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-171%3A+Async+Sink) we have decided to create the `AsyncSinkBase`, an abstract sink with a number of common functionalities extracted. 
This is a base implementation for Async sinks, which you should use whenever you need to implement a sink that doesn't offer transactional capabilities (like most databases). Adding support for a new destination now only requires a lightweight shim that implements the specific interfaces of the destination using a client that supports async requests. 
```

Author: Instead of:
This is a base implementation for Async sinks, which you should use whenever you need to implement a sink that doesn't offer transactional capabilities (like most databases). 
How about:
This is a base implementation for asynchronous sinks, which you should use whenever you need to implement a sink that doesn't offer transactional capabilities.

> This common abstraction will reduce the effort required to maintain individual sinks that extend from this abstract sink, with bugfixes and improvements to the sink core benefiting all implementations that extend it. The design of AsyncSyncBase focuses on extensibility and a broad support of destinations. The core of the sink is kept generic and free of any connector-specific dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This common abstraction will reduce the effort required to maintain individual sinks that extend from this abstract sink, with bug fixes and improvements to the sink core benefiting all implementations that extend it. The design of `AsyncSinkBase` focuses on extensibility and a broad support of destinations. The core of the sink is kept generic and free of any connector-specific dependencies.
```

**Note** The sink is designed to participate in checkpointing to provide at-least once semantics.

**Attention** The sink can work directly with destinations that provide a client that supports asynchronous requests. Alternatively, concrete sink implementers may manage their own thread pool with a synchronous client.

> The design of the sink focuses on extensibility and a broad support of destinations. The core of the sink is kept generic and free of any connector-specific dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This common abstraction will reduce the effort required to maintain individual sinks that extend from this abstract sink, with bugfixes and improvements to the sink core benefiting all implementations that extend it. The design of AsyncSyncBase focuses on extensibility and a broad support of destinations. The core of the sink is kept generic and free of any connector-specific dependencies.

The sink base is designed to participate in checkpointing to provide at-least-once semantics and can work directly with destinations that provide a client that supports asynchronous requests. Alternatively, concrete sink implementers may manage their own thread pool with a synchronous client.
```

> 
> {% toc %}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this post, we will go over some of the details of the AsyncSinkBase so that you can start using it to build your own concrete sink. 

{% toc %}
```

Author: I recommend a minor change to "In this post, we will go over the details of the AsyncSinkBase so that you can start using it to build your own concrete sink. " as it reads more naturally 👍

> # Adding the base sink as a dependency
> In order to use the base sink, you will need to add the following dependency to your project. The example below follows the Maven syntax:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Adding the base sink as a dependency

In order to use the base sink, you will need to add the following dependency to your project. The example below follows the Maven syntax:
```

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
  <artifactId>flink-connector-base</artifactId>
  <version>${flink.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

> # The Public Interfaces of AsyncSinkBase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

# The Public Interfaces of AsyncSinkBase
```

## Generic Types

`<InputT>` – type of elements in a DataStream that should be passed to the sink

`<RequestEntryT>` – type of a payload containing the element and additional metadata that is required to submit a single element to the destination

## Element Converter Interface

> [ElementConverter](https://github.com/apache/flink/blob/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-base/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/connector/base/sink/writer/ElementConverter.java)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Element Converter Interface

[ElementConverter](https://github.com/apache/flink/blob/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-base/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/connector/base/sink/writer/ElementConverter.java)
```

At the time of writing, the [Kinesis Data Streams sink](https://github.com/apache/flink/tree/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-aws-kinesis-streams) and [Kinesis Data Firehose sink](https://github.com/apache/flink/tree/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-aws-kinesis-firehose) are using this base sink. 

# Metrics

There are three metrics that automatically exist when you implement sinks (and, thus, should not be implemented by yourself).

* CurrentSendTime Gauge - returns the amount of time in milliseconds it took for the most recent request to write records to return, whether successful or not.  
* NumBytesOut Counter - counts the total number of bytes the sink has tried to write to the destination, using the method `getSizeInBytes` to determine the size of each record. This will double count failures that may need to be retried. 
* NumRecordsOut Counter - similar to above, this counts the total number of records the sink has tried to write to the destination. This will double count failures that may need to be retried.

> # Sink Behaviour

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Sink Behavior
```

* `int maxBufferedRequests` - maximum buffer length. Callbacks to add elements to the buffer and calls to write will block if this length has been reached and will only unblock if elements from the buffer have been removed for flushing.
* `long flushOnBufferSizeInBytes` - a flush will be attempted if the most recent call to write introduces an element to the buffer such that the total size of the buffer is greater than or equal to this threshold value.
* `long maxTimeInBufferMS` - maximum amount of time an element may remain in the buffer. In most cases elements are flushed as a result of the batch size (in bytes or number) being reached or during a snapshot. However, there are scenarios where an element may remain in the buffer forever or a long period of time. To mitigate this, a timer is constantly active in the buffer such that: while the buffer is not empty, it will flush every maxTimeInBufferMS milliseconds.
* `long maxRecordSizeInBytes` - maximum size in bytes allowed for a single record, as determined by `getSizeInBytes()`.

> Destinations typically have a defined throughput limit and will begin throttling or rejecting requests once near. With multiple subtasks, we employ [Additive Increase Multiplicative Decrease (AIMD)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Additive_increase/multiplicative_decrease) as a strategy for selecting the optimal batch size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Destinations typically have a defined throughput limit and will begin throttling or rejecting requests once near. With multiple subtasks, we employ [Additive Increase Multiplicative Decrease (AIMD)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Additive_increase/multiplicative_decrease) as a strategy for selecting the optimal batch size.

# Summary

The AsyncSinkBase is a new abstraction that makes maintaining and creating async sinks easier.  This will be available in Flink 1.15 and we hope that you will try it out and gives us feedback on it. 
```

---
layout: post

> title: "The Generic Asynchronous Base Sink"

Reviewer: This blog does not cover/mention TableAPI. Is that intentional or a miss?

Author: Wanted to keep it succinct... I feel anyone well versed in building a connector, and has read through this intro, would be confident in creating the corresponding table api decorators.

date: 2022-04-30 16:00:00
authors:
- CrynetLogistics:
  name: "Zichen Liu"
excerpt: An overview of the new AsyncBaseSink and how to use it for building your own concrete sink
---

> Flink sinks share a lot of similar behavior. All sinks batch records according to user-defined buffering hints, sign requests, write them to the destination, retry unsuccessful or throttled requests, and participate in checkpointing.

Reviewer: > All sinks batch records according to user-defined buffering hints

Not sure this is true

> This is why for [Flink 1.15](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-171%3A+Async+Sink) we have decided to create the `AsyncSinkBase`, an abstract sink with a number of common functionalities extracted. 

Reviewer: > This is why for [Flink 1.15]

The title of this link seems off, I would expect a Flink 1.15 link to take me to a Flink 1.15 page. Maybe put the link over the "AsyncSinkBase" instead?

This is a base implementation for asynchronous sinks, which you should use whenever you need to implement a sink that doesn't offer transactional capabilities. Adding support for a new destination now only requires a lightweight shim that implements the specific interfaces of the destination using a client that supports async requests.

This common abstraction will reduce the effort required to maintain individual sinks that extend from this abstract sink, with bug fixes and improvements to the sink core benefiting all implementations that extend it. The design of `AsyncSinkBase` focuses on extensibility and a broad support of destinations. The core of the sink is kept generic and free of any connector-specific dependencies.

> The sink base is designed to participate in checkpointing to provide at-least-once semantics and can work directly with destinations that provide a client that supports asynchronous requests. Alternatively, concrete sink implementers may manage their own thread pool with a synchronous client.

Reviewer: > Alternatively, concrete sink implementers may manage their own thread pool with a synchronous client.

If we are hinting towards this, do we need to elaborate? Consider dropping this statement

In this post, we will go over the details of the AsyncSinkBase so that you can start using it to build your own concrete sink.

{% toc %}

# Adding the base sink as a dependency

In order to use the base sink, you will need to add the following dependency to your project. The example below follows the Maven syntax:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
  <artifactId>flink-connector-base</artifactId>
  <version>${flink.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

> # The Public Interfaces of AsyncSinkBase

Reviewer: Is it worth linking out to concrete examples in KDS/KDF after explaining the theory?

Author: I think the current location of the KDS/KDF mention is appropriate because the user can better appreciate the naming of the classes in the linked modules having gone through the base versions.

## Generic Types

`<InputT>` – type of elements in a DataStream that should be passed to the sink

`<RequestEntryT>` – type of a payload containing the element and additional metadata that is required to submit a single element to the destination

## Element Converter Interface

> [ElementConverter](https://github.com/apache/flink/blob/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-base/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/connector/base/sink/writer/ElementConverter.java)

Reviewer 3: Link to the release-1.15.0 tag instead

Reviewer 3: Let's link to the _tag_, not a branch. Tags are the only actually stable destination that we have.

```java
public interface ElementConverter<InputT, RequestEntryT> extends Serializable {
    RequestEntryT apply(InputT element, SinkWriter.Context context);
}
```

> The concrete sink implementation should provide a way to convert from an element in the DataStream to the payload type that contains all the additional metadata required to submit that element to the destination by the sink. Ideally, this would be hidden from the end user since it allows concrete sink implementers to adapt to changes in the destination API without breaking end user code.

Reviewer: nit

> Ideally, this would be hidden 

Ideally, this would be encapsulated

## Sink Writer Interface

[AsyncSinkWriter](https://github.com/apache/flink/blob/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-base/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/connector/base/sink/writer/AsyncSinkWriter.java)

```java
public abstract class AsyncSinkWriter<InputT, RequestEntryT extends Serializable>
        implements StatefulSink.StatefulSinkWriter<InputT, BufferedRequestState<RequestEntryT>> {
    // ...
    protected abstract void submitRequestEntries(

>             List<RequestEntryT> requestEntries, Consumer<List<RequestEntryT>> requestResult);

Reviewer 3: This goes beyond the blogpost but the naming of the requestResult parameter is questionable.

It should be named like "requestToRetry" or something along those lines.

Author: I agree. How should I action this item? Would a new jira be most appropriate?

Reviewer 3: > Would a new jira be most appropriate?

yes.

Author: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-27536

    // ...
}
```

> In this method, sink implementers should use the destination clients to submit `requestEntries` asynchronously to be written.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this method, sink implementers should use the destination clients to submit `requestEntries` asynchronously.
```
This reads quite weird imo.

> We will submit the `requestEntries` asynchronously to the destination from here. Sink implementers should use the client libraries of the destination they intend to write to, to perform this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We will submit the `requestEntries` asynchronously to the destination from here. Sink implementers should use the client libraries of the destination they intend to write to.
```

Author: I think the current wording as it stands is more complete.

> Should any elements fail to be persisted, they should be requeued back in the buffer for retry using `requestResult.accept(...list of failed entries...)`. However, retrying any element that is known to be faulty and consistently failing, will result in that element being requeued forever, therefore a sensible strategy for determining what should be retried is highly recommended.

Reviewer 4: We should call out that this method needs to be called with an empty list in case no requests need to be retried.

> Should any elements fail to be persisted, they should be requeued back in the buffer for retry using `requestResult.accept(...list of failed entries...)`. However, retrying any element that is known to be faulty and consistently failing, will result in that element being requeued forever, therefore a sensible strategy for determining what should be retried is highly recommended. If no errors were returned, we must indicate this with `requestResult.accept(Collections.emptyList())`.

Reviewer 3: How would such a strategy look like? Do we expect users to embed some ID into RequestEntryT? Does the base provide any utilities to implement such a strategy? Are there examples anywhere?

Author: The concrete sink implementer should try to discern from the response whether an element in that request is worth retrying. For a concrete example see the Kinesis Streams sink.

> Should any elements fail to be persisted, they should be requeued back in the buffer for retry using `requestResult.accept(...list of failed entries...)`. However, retrying any element that is known to be faulty and consistently failing, will result in that element being requeued forever, therefore a sensible strategy for determining what should be retried is highly recommended. If no errors were returned, we must indicate this with `requestResult.accept(Collections.emptyList())`.

Reviewer 3: It may be good to add a paragraph for the buffer; here we reference some buffer but never explained what that actually is.

> If at any point, it is determined that a fatal error has occurred and that we should throw a runtime exception from the sink, we can call `getFatalExceptionCons().accept(...);` from anywhere in the concrete sink writer.

Reviewer 3: I'm curious why this was implemented as a Consumer and not just as a "reportFatalException(Exception)" method.

Author: So that we can pass the consumer and error to the `FatalExceptionClassifier` triage class to handle / retry etc.

Reviewer 3: But that'd be possible in any case by passing `this::reportFatalException` to the triage class or whatever class wants to handle exceptions

```java

> public abstract class AsyncSinkWriter<InputT, RequestEntryT extends Serializable>

Reviewer 3: side-note: Why do we require RequestEntryT to be serializable?

Author: We need to be able to serialise the entries when saving down the state of the sink in `AsyncSinkWriterStateSerializer`.

Reviewer 3: What's the migration story here? By using java serialization you're locking the implementation to a specific class. How do you ensure that states can be migrated from previous versions? How can connectors change the connector-internal state representation?

I hope these issues were raised during the reviews; we do call out java serialization in our code quality guide (repeatedly) for a reason. Any usage of java serialization in api & state layers have proven to be problematic down-the-line, even when they sounded like a good idea at the time.

Reviewer: Java serialization is not actually used in the `AsyncSinkWriterStateSerializer`. It was in the original PR, which was rejected and subsequently reimplemented. Looks like `extends Serializable` was then not removed, which it should have been. This is a smell in the interface, since this is `@PublicEvolving` we can consider removing this in Flink 1.16 with community buy-in.

        implements StatefulSink.StatefulSinkWriter<InputT, BufferedRequestState<RequestEntryT>> {
    // ...
    protected abstract long getSizeInBytes(RequestEntryT requestEntry);
    // ...
}
```

> The async sink has a concept of size of elements in the buffer. This allows users to specify a byte size threshold beyond which elements will be flushed. However the sink implementer is best positioned to determine what is the most sensible measure of size for each `RequestEntryT` is.

Reviewer 3: What if the sink can't gauge the actual size?

Author: That would be rare. In which case, they can return 0 and the sink will behave as if there were no condition to flush buffer on size.

Reviewer 3: 0 being a special case is not documented.

> The async sink has a concept of size of elements in the buffer. This allows users to specify a byte size threshold beyond which elements will be flushed. However the sink implementer is best positioned to determine what is the most sensible measure of size for each `RequestEntryT` is. If there is no way to determine the size of a record, then the value `0` may be returned, and the sink will not flush based on record size triggers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The async sink has a concept of size of elements in the buffer. This allows users to specify a byte size threshold beyond which elements will be flushed. However the sink implementer is best positioned to determine what the most sensible measure of size for each `RequestEntryT` is. If there is no way to determine the size of a record, then the value `0` may be returned, and the sink will not flush based on record size triggers.
```

```java
public abstract class AsyncSinkWriter<InputT, RequestEntryT extends Serializable>
        implements StatefulSink.StatefulSinkWriter<InputT, BufferedRequestState<RequestEntryT>> {
    // ...
    public AsyncSinkWriter(
            ElementConverter<InputT, RequestEntryT> elementConverter,
            Sink.InitContext context,
            int maxBatchSize,
            int maxInFlightRequests,
            int maxBufferedRequests,
            long maxBatchSizeInBytes,
            long maxTimeInBufferMS,
            long maxRecordSizeInBytes) { /* ... */ }
    // ...
}
```

> By default, the method `snapshotState` returns all the elements in the buffer to be saved down for snapshots. Any elements that have been removed from the buffer for writing and are in flight have already been completed due to the sink operator calling `flush(true)` on the sink writer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the method `snapshotState` returns all the elements in the buffer to be saved for snapshots. Any elements that have been removed from the buffer for writing and are in flight have already been completed due to the sink operator calling `flush(true)` on the sink writer.
```

Reviewer 3: How can an element be "in flight" and "complete" at the same time?

Author: Amend
> Any elements that have been removed from the buffer for writing and are in flight have already been completed due to the sink operator calling `flush(true)` on the sink writer.

to

> Any elements that have been removed from the buffer for writing and were therefore previously in flight have already been completed due to the sink operator calling `flush(true)` on the sink writer.

> You may want to save down additional state from the concrete sink and you can achieve this by overriding `snapshotState`, and restoring in the constructor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To store additional state from the concrete sink you can override `snapshotState`, and restore the state it in the constructor.
```

Reviewer 3: It's not clear how the restoration via the constructor works. Where does the sink (which calls the constructor) get access to the state that should be restored?

Author: During restoration, instead of calling `createWriter` the sink operator will call `restoreWriter`, providing the state.
From `StatefulSink`...
```
    StatefulSinkWriter<InputT, WriterStateT> restoreWriter(
            InitContext context, Collection<WriterStateT> recoveredState) throws IOException;
```

Reviewer 3: That method should be mentioned. As is, after reading this section I'm left with "how would that work", which shouldn't be the case.

> By default, the method `snapshotState` returns all the elements in the buffer to be saved down for snapshots. Any elements that have been removed from the buffer for writing and were therefore previously in flight have already been completed due to the sink operator calling `flush(true)` on the sink writer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the method `snapshotState` returns all the elements in the buffer to be saved for snapshots. Any elements that were previously removed from the buffer are guaranteed to be persisted in the destination by a preceding call to `AsyncWriter#flush(true)`.
```

> You may want to save down additional state from the concrete sink. You can achieve this by overriding `snapshotState`, and restoring from the saved state in the constructor. You will receive the saved state by overriding `restoreWriter` in your concrete sink. In this method, you should construct a sink writer, passing in the recovered state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You may want to save additional state from the concrete sink. You can achieve this by overriding `snapshotState`, and restoring from the saved state in the constructor. You will receive the saved state by overriding `restoreWriter` in your concrete sink. In this method, you should construct a sink writer, passing in the recovered state.
```

```java
class MySinkWriter<InputT> extends AsyncSinkWriter<InputT, RequestEntryT> {

    MySinkWriter(
          // ... 
          Collection<BufferedRequestState<Record>> initialStates) {
        super(
            // ...
            initialStates);
        // restore concrete sink state from initialStates
    }
    
    @Override
    public List<BufferedRequestState<RequestEntryT>> snapshotState(long checkpointId) {
        super.snapshotState(checkpointId);
        // ...
    }

}
```

## Sink Interface

[AsyncSinkBase](https://github.com/apache/flink/blob/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-base/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/connector/base/sink/AsyncSinkBase.java)

```java
class MySink<InputT> extends AsyncSinkBase<InputT, RequestEntryT> {
    // ...
    @Override
    public StatefulSinkWriter<InputT, BufferedRequestState<RequestEntryT>> createWriter(InitContext context) {
        return new MySinkWriter(context);
    }
    // ...
}
```

> Sink implementers extending this will need to return their own extension of the `AsyncSinkWriter` from `createWriter()` inside their own implementation of `AsyncSinkBase`.

Reviewer 3: This is worded in a very roundabout way.
```suggestion
AsyncSinkBase implementations return their own extension of the `AsyncSinkWriter` from `createWriter()`.
```

At the time of writing, the [Kinesis Data Streams sink](https://github.com/apache/flink/tree/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-aws-kinesis-streams) and [Kinesis Data Firehose sink](https://github.com/apache/flink/tree/master/flink-connectors/flink-connector-aws-kinesis-firehose) are using this base sink. 

# Metrics

There are three metrics that automatically exist when you implement sinks (and, thus, should not be implemented by yourself).

> * CurrentSendTime Gauge - returns the amount of time in milliseconds it took for the most recent request to write records to return, whether successful or not.  

Reviewer 3: "return" is throwing me off a bit. Is it actually the time that it took for submitRequestEntries() to _return_, or for `requestResult#accept` to be called?

Author: The latter. I will update the wording as follows:
>* CurrentSendTime Gauge - returns the amount of time in milliseconds it took for the most recent request to write records to return, whether successful or not. 

to 

>* CurrentSendTime Gauge - returns the amount of time in milliseconds it took for the most recent request to write records to complete, whether successful or not.

* NumBytesOut Counter - counts the total number of bytes the sink has tried to write to the destination, using the method `getSizeInBytes` to determine the size of each record. This will double count failures that may need to be retried. 

> * NumRecordsOut Counter - similar to above, this counts the total number of records the sink has tried to write to the destination. This will double count failures that may need to be retried.

Reviewer 3: the metric name start with a lower-case letter. The metric type doesn't seem relevant to the implementation.

Reviewer 3: It's also strange that we don't differentiate between successful and failed writes. for numRecords-/BytesOut.
That _will_ throw users off.

Reviewer 3: Moreover it is extra strange that there are no metrics that capture failures etc.

Author: On the contrary, these are the metrics that will always be __implemented by the base sink__. The base sink has no way of knowing the nature of the failures - partial/multiple/size of bytes failed etc. and the implementation of those are deferred to the concrete sink.

Author: The intended meaning of numRecords/BytesOut as defined in the metrics docs is the "total number of records/bytes emitted". That directly corresponds to the __total__ amount of stuff that has gone down the pipe whether successful or not. The other sinks also use this semantic e.g. Kafka.

# Sink Behavior

> There are six sink configuration settings that control the buffering, flushing, and retry behavior of the sink.

Reviewer 3: Why is this not documented in the javadocs?

Author: They are documented in the `AsyncSinkBaseBuilder`

Reviewer 3: So? We don't enforce that the builder is used (nor is it mentioned in the blogpost). And implementations still need to call the constructor at some point, and they need to know what is what.

Author: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-27505

> * `int maxBatchSize` - maximum number of elements that may be passed in the   list to submitRequestEntries to be written downstream.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `int maxBatchSize` - maximum number of elements that may be passed in the list to submitRequestEntries to be written downstream.
```

* `int maxInFlightRequests` - maximum number of uncompleted calls to submitRequestEntries that the SinkWriter will allow at any given point. Once this point has reached, writes and callbacks to add elements to the buffer may block until one or more requests to submitRequestEntries completes.
* `int maxBufferedRequests` - maximum buffer length. Callbacks to add elements to the buffer and calls to write will block if this length has been reached and will only unblock if elements from the buffer have been removed for flushing.

> * `long flushOnBufferSizeInBytes` - a flush will be attempted if the most recent call to write introduces an element to the buffer such that the total size of the buffer is greater than or equal to this threshold value.

Reviewer 5: `flushOnBufferSizeInBytes` has been renamed to `maxBatchSizeInBytes` in code
The term appears twice  in this blog post.

Author: Thanks for the spot. I have checked out the latest and double checked other name changes too.

> * `long maxTimeInBufferMS` - maximum amount of time an element may remain in the buffer. In most cases elements are flushed as a result of the batch size (in bytes or number) being reached or during a snapshot. However, there are scenarios where an element may remain in the buffer forever or a long period of time. To mitigate this, a timer is constantly active in the buffer such that: while the buffer is not empty, it will flush every maxTimeInBufferMS milliseconds.

Reviewer 3: I'm curious why this was modeled as along instead of a Duration.

Author: To conform with other connectors - Kafka, Pulsar etc.

> * `long maxRecordSizeInBytes` - maximum size in bytes allowed for a single record, as determined by `getSizeInBytes()`.

Reviewer 3: What happens if this is exceeded`?

Author: The sink will raise an exception.

Destinations typically have a defined throughput limit and will begin throttling or rejecting requests once near. With multiple subtasks, we employ [Additive Increase Multiplicative Decrease (AIMD)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Additive_increase/multiplicative_decrease) as a strategy for selecting the optimal batch size.

# Summary

> The AsyncSinkBase is a new abstraction that makes maintaining and creating async sinks easier.  This will be available in Flink 1.15 and we hope that you will try it out and gives us feedback on it.

Reviewer: typo "gives"

> it out and gives us feedback on it.

> The AsyncSinkBase is a new abstraction that makes maintaining and creating async sinks easier.  This will be available in Flink 1.15 and we hope that you will try it out and give us feedback on it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The AsyncSinkBase is a new abstraction that makes maintaining and creating async sinks easier. This will be available in Flink 1.15 and we hope that you will try it out and give us feedback on it.
```

> Destinations typically have a defined throughput limit and will begin throttling or rejecting requests once near. With multiple subtasks, we employ [Additive Increase Multiplicative Decrease (AIMD)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Additive_increase/multiplicative_decrease) as a strategy for selecting the optimal batch size.

Reviewer 3: I'm wondering what the meaning of "With multiple subtasks" is. Is this not used when the parallelism is 1?

Author: Sure, I will reword. It's just that if there were only 1 subtask, AIMD would not be needed for that subtask to determine the optimal throughput at which to write. However, with many subtasks with varying throughputs, AIMD is a strategy where, with no inter-subtask communication, an equilibrium write throughput is guaranteed to be reached for all subtasks.

Author: Btw, to clarify, when I say AIMD would not be needed when there is 1 subtask, I mean that particular strategy would not be needed. It's always advisable to have some form of rate limiting mechanism in play.

> The AsyncSinkBase is a new abstraction that makes maintaining and creating async sinks easier. This will be available in Flink 1.15 and we hope that you will try it out and give us feedback on it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The AsyncSinkBase is a new abstraction that makes creating and maintaining async sinks easier. This will be available in Flink 1.15 and we hope that you will try it out and give us feedback on it.
```
logically creating comes before maintaining :)
